♪ (Light music) ♪
In 2012, the Institute of Medicine
estimated that $750 to $765 billion
is spent each year in the
US on healthcare waste.
This is likely now over one
trillion dollars each year.
This waste represents
up to 30 cents or more
on every healthcare dollar spent.
If we distributed that money
to each person in the US,
every single man, woman, and child
would receive a little
over $3,000 every year.
This level of waste
becomes more poignant
when you consider that medical
costs are a leading cause of
personal bankruptcy in
the United States.
To get a sense of the
scale of this problem,
consider these analogies.
If banking were like healthcare,
ATM transactions would take not seconds,
but perhaps days or longer as a result of
unavailable or misplaced records.
If shopping were like healthcare,
product prices would not be posted
and the price charged would
vary widely within the same store
depending on the source of payment.
If automobile manufacturing
were like healthcare,
warranties for cars that
require manufacturers
to pay for defects would not exist.
As a result, few factories would seek
to monitor and improve
production line performance
and product quality.
If airline travel were like healthcare,
each pilot would be free to design
his or her own preflight safety check.
Or not perform one at all.
Indeed, healthcare waste is detrimental
at the individual, family,
community, and national levels.